# Possibility of Chinese Software TikTok Collecting User Information Would Negatively Impact U.S. National Security

I discuss two articles about the possibility of TikTok collecting user information and handing it over to the Chinese government, and the claim by some that this would pose an urgent threat to U.S. national security and therefore the U.S. government would need to respond to it. My discussion of the two opposing views on this critical matter are as follows.

##  TikTok Should Be Curbed in the United States for the Information Security Safety Sake

In The New York Times's [TikTok Enlists Army of Lobbyists as Suspicions Over China Ties Grow](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/technology/tiktok-washington-lobbyist.html?_ga=2.190344034.850456376.1612550030-1788139640.1612550030), the news notes that U.S. officials, led by former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, are considering taking restrictive measures against TikTok's parent company ByteDance and other social media from China, such as Tencent, the parent company of WeChat, in a move aimed precisely at clearing up potential national dangers. They argue that ByteDance has difficulty escaping the Chinese government's directives and controls, meaning that U.S. users' private information could be used for surveillance or espionage. Therefore, to protect U.S. users' private information, staying away from insecure Chinese companies or banning Chinese softwares represented by TikTok may become the solution.

In my view, although the U.S. government's ban on TikTok is understandable considering that China has banned a series of foreign social media applications such as YouTube and Twitter for years on the grounds of information security, it is not a good thing in the long run, and the benefits even outweigh the disadvantages. If more countries follow such practices and impose digital controls for protectionist purposes or on the grounds of citizens' information security, the freedom and unrestricted nature of Internet communication will be lost, and it will also be detrimental to the expansion and development of U.S. technology companies in other countries.

## Enacting a Strong Federal Privacy Law to Protect TikTok Users’ Data Is Better Than Banning the App

Contrary to the claims made in NPR's piece on the issue, New York Times's [Don’t Ban TikTok. Make an Example of It.](https://cn.nytimes.com/technology/20200728/tiktok-china-ban-model/dual/), the news also starts by pointing out that TikTok is owned by Chinese tech company, and therefore has the potential to provide user data to the Chinese government upon request. However, the news also points out that there are questionable motives for many of TikTok's critics, with politicians more concerned with showing their toughness on China than the security of  users' information. Indeed, if TikTok could pose a threat, so could League of Legends, which was acquired by Tencent. Meanwhile, an outright ban on TikTok could raise public concerns about censorship and authoritarian control. In case of this, it might be a better idea to create effective rules to turn it into a technology platform that is transparent and privacy-protecting.

In my opinion, having transparent and effective rules to regulate the app would be more responsible than an outright ban, as it would preserve TikTok as a platform for fostering a creative culture while also alleviating public concerns and fears about data security. Indeed, regulation of TikTok could evolve into a mode that could be applied to Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and other mainstream social media apps that have already broken out in data security scandals in the U.S. or are similarly suspected of collecting users' information. In this way, these large technology platforms could be effectively controlled, users' private information would be protected from illegal collection and use, and the use of the apps would become safer and more secure.